---
layout: post
title:  "Node.js Bit Operations"
---

I was working on trying to get the barometer readings from my [TI
SensorTag](http://www.ti.com/ww/en/wireless_connectivity/sensortag/index.shtml?DCMP=sensortag&HQS=sensortag-bn)
using Node.js when I came across this problem. See, the [user\'s
guide](http://processors.wiki.ti.com/index.php/SensorTag_User_Guide#Barometric_Pressure_Sensor_2)
has two code examples for the algorithm for the pressure - one in C, and
one in Java. The one in C uses primarily bit shift operations, whereas
the one in Java uses `Math.pow()` to do the same thing. Naturally, I
tended towards the bit shift operations since it makes the code a bit
clearer as to what it\'s doing (ultimately, from a performance
perspective, it doesn\'t matter since `Math.pow(2, x)` probably
ultimately resolves to bit shifts anyway).

However, when I did this, I kept on getting pressure values that were
all over the place. When I broke it down, it looked like the \"offset\"
and \"scale\" factors, which rely heavily on bit shifts, were bouncing
all over the place.

So, I did some looking, and discovered that, although Node.js stores all
its variables as 64-bit floating point numbers, when it comes to bit
operations, it does those as 32-bit numbers. A quick test showed that
this is true:

    > a = Math.pow(2, 31)-1
    2147483647
    > a >> 10
    2097151
    > a = Math.pow(2, 32) -1
    4294967295
    > a >> 10
    -1
    > a >> 2
    -1

Notice the sharp transition once you hit that 32-bit border. What that
meant was that any time I was doing bit operations, if the value I was
operating on was less than 2\^32, I got the right answer, otherwise I
got garbage. Fun.

So, when I switched to the Java algorithm (modified, of course, because
they seem to have forgotten to divide those values by 100 at the end)
everything worked.

Good. To. Know.
