---
layout: single
title:  "It's...ALIVE!!!"
tags:
  - blog
---

So, I've let this blog languish for, jeez, 7 years now. Part of that was
because I started a new job at the time (which I'm still at), which at the time
required a lot of my attention, not to mention my daughters being younger and
requiring more time. It's also partly because I'm not really a social person -
I can certainly give people the impression that I am (aka "protective
coloration"), but expressing myself in social situations (i.e. to other
people), with a few exceptions, takes a lot of energy. This includes online
interactions, even one-sided ones like blog posts.

The other issue I have with blogging is that talking about my thoughts is hard
for me. It's not so much that I'm a private person - I'm actually not, which is
another dimension of my difficulties with social interaction, in that I
sometimes "over-share", which can cause those close to me distress. It's
really more that I find verbal and written communication a terrible way to
actually communicate thoughts. As someone much more eloquent than I once
said, "Meaning has something it is pursuing, but the thing that it is
pursuing cannot be put into words and handed down".  I've been constantly,
painfully aware of this tension between words and meaning my entire life, and
it's been a source of great frustration to me. I've been told I'm "good with
words", which I take to mean somewhat eloquent, but I never feel like my
words actually capture the meaning I'm pursuing.

In terms of the technical stuff, I'm using [jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) plus
[github pages](https://pages.github.com/) for this, partly because it gives me
more control, and also because it feels more like "programming" in some sense,
which helps me be less, I guess, intimidated by the whole process.

I should also mention that I'm not a web designer or programmer by any stretch.
To be honest, I've always been a little in awe of people in those fields. I
mean, programming itself is one thing, but programming something that doesn't
just "work", but also has to be aesthetically pleasing in some regard, using
tools which are constantly in flux, and having to make this work on browsers
which render things very differently - the ability for people to do this is
amazing to me, and is definitely not something in my skill set. Hence, I'm
using someone else's layout setup

However, all that being said, I'm going to try to keep up with this as best as I can.
